This is a puppet manifest to install (and maintain) a DDTP server.

The DDTP is the Debian Description Translation Project, see
http://www.debian.org/international/l10n/ddtp .

Installation Procedure
======================

NOTE: This is a puppet manifest and applying it *will* reconfigure the
machine you run it on, up to and including installing a database server,
webserver and mail server.

Using it is very simple. Once you have checked it out, do:

   $ cd DDTP-puppet
   $ sudo puppet apply --modulepath modules/ init.pp

This will apply the whole configuration. There are not a lot of options,
those that exist are in the init.pp file, though you probably won't need to
change any.

If you get any errors please let me know (cut and paste output). But usually
you can fix them by simply rerunning the above command. Puppet is
idempotent, so you can't break anything by running it multiple times.

After this you have a skeleton server, with no data. To remedy this you need
to download the database from the original DDTP server (300MB at this
writing). First you need to switch to the newly created ddtp user.

   $ sudo -u ddtp bash
   $ wget http://ddtp.debian.net/source/pg_ddts_current.dump.gz
   $ zcat pg_ddts_current.dump.gz | psql ddtp -q

This should be enough to get you going. There are a few loose ends for a
complete replacement.

ddtp-dinstall
-------------

The manifest includes all the necessary parts to have dak download the
updated Translation files. However, dak uses rsync-over-ssh and so you need
to add the public key to the authorized_keys file:

   /home/ddtp-dak/.ssh/authorized_keys

Email
-----

While the manifest does install a mail server (exim4) it doesn't configure
it.  Email is mostly used to send confirmation emails from the DDTSS, though
there is a mail interface to the DDTP.

   $ sudo dpkg-reconfigure exim4-config

A functional mail server also requires reverse DNS entries, MX records and
other stuff so incoming/outgoing email actually works.

Note the DDTP mail processor is not designed to handle spam, so installing
greylisting and/or spam-filtering is highly recommended.

Webserver
---------

The webserver install is Apache2 and it drops a config in the
/etc/apache2/sites-available directory. You can choose to enable SSL support
(which is on by default) and in that case a default snakeoil certificate
will be generated.  For normal use however a real certificate should be
generated. The certificate is stored in:

   /srv/admin/ssl/<server_name>.pem

Database
--------

The database server is PostgreSQL. It is installed without any configuration
or tuning. A 'ddtp' user and database is created but that's it. This is
performancewise possibly not optimal, but tuning is machine specific.

Stats
-----

The statistics for the last few years is not included and its useful to have
them for the graphs on the front page.

   $ sudo -u ddtp bash
   $ wget http://ddtp.debian.net/source/stats.tar.gz
   $ cd ~ddtp/log
   $ tar xzf $OLDPWD/stats.tar.gz

Credits
=======

This manifest was written by Martijn van Oosterhout <kleptog@gmail.com>.
